So, now we're gonna style
this particular text and
you have the website to refer to take
a look at colors and all the rest of that.
Where I'm going to actually start
is at the end point here and
I'm gonna walk you through this part
of this because I wanna be sure that
everybody gets they're starting
CSS set up the same way that I do.
So I'm going to go a jump briefly
to the end point of part three, so
this is chapter two part
three the ending code pen.
And this is where we're going to make it
pretty and I'm gonna walk you through this
part of this because I want you to be sure
to start your CSS the same way that I do.
And I'm actually gonna start at the ending
code pen here because we're gonna copy
over a big chunk of text that
I've already written for you.
I'm so nice that way, so here In the CSS
for the ending state of part three,
and then we'll walk through
how to actually style this.
We are going to go just up here
at the very top of this document.
Now this may be new to some of you.
This is the concept of CSS variables,
also called CSS custom properties.
This is not a course on variables and
custom properties, but
they are incredibly useful for spelling
out things we're gonna use over and
over again, in this case,
colors and font stacks.
And I think I even have
a font size in here.
So variables work just
like you would expect.
You remember about variables from algebra,
x equals three.
So x plus four equals seven.
What is the value of x?
It must be three, right this is
the same concept here inside of CSS.
So what we do to set this up we have
these available globally to us so
in other words we can use these
anywhere in our CSS document.
To set it up we use this colon route and
that is called a pseudo class,
it indicates this is
the top of our document.
Now, you might be thinking
well why not just HTML?
Two reasons, one there is a before and
an after associated with HTML.
And by using route we're gonna
encompass all of the things everywhere,
right, the entire document object model.
Second thing is has to
do with specificity.
So, a pseudo class is more
heavily weighted in the cascade,
than a simple HTML element like HTML.
[LAUGH] So this is going to weigh
thing a little more heavily,
give us a little bit more specificity, and
potentially overrides some other things
that we might do in our documents.
So, this tends to be what people
do in order to set this up.
And so, here I have my entire color
scheme, you start each of these variables
with double dash and you give it a name
and that name can be anything you want.
And I could have called
this George Salmon, Mary.
But I call these by
the names of the colors.
Some people would say that that is
a completely wrong way of doing things
because now I'm associating a hex
code with a name for a color and
what happens if we
change things over time?
That's fair.
That's why you often see things like
primary color, secondary color and so
forth inside of stylesheets.
But I'd also argue that it's pretty rare
that companies change their branding.
And that if your graphic design
team has named these colors,
which, our graphic design team
totally named these colors,
then you can just use those words
that will refer back to some style
guide that you might have access to and
map those colors back there.
The second part of this has to do
with the border box model here.
And you can read about that at CSS tricks.
They'll explain the border box model and
how that works.
It's also explained in the front
end masters boot camp.
We wanna work with the border box
model and so to make that happen,
we need to have a declaration here,
that will set us at the border box and
then set us up to inherit from there.
So basically what I'd like for
you to do is to copy lines, one to 22.
We're just gonna copy that.
And we're going to paste it into the code
pen that we're about to start working on.
You can get rid of this body font
family of Arial that was just there to
keep the text from looking too awful.
And we are set and
ready to go there, okay?
So that gives you that baseline so
we can refer to those colors later on.
Now, if you're using your
own custom color scheme,
feel free to swap in your own colors
here and set that up according to
whatever color scheme it is that you
are using for your particular site.
So let's go ahead then and start setting
up the rest of this particular document.
First of all, we would like to set
up the styling for this web page.
And I always like to do this
using the body element.
And the body element of course
encompasses pretty much
everything that's visible on the web page.
By default, your browser will put
either padding or margin on it.
So anytime you've seen that situation
let's just say we have a background
color of blue just for the moment.
Here on this page actually let
me change that the section
color with a background color
of blue there that's better.
See how we get that weird white wrapper
around that whole thing there and
the color doesn't stretch all the way
up to the edges of your browser window.
The reason why is that the body
element has either padding or
margin on it and it depends on
what browser you're looking at.
So what we do here to get
around that particular
problem is if we say our padding is 0,
and our margin is 0
Later if we say our section has
now a background color of blue,
now you see that stretches all
the way across the page, okay?
We have an issue with the top and
the bottom that's a different issue that
actually doesn't relate
to the body element.
But that we just solve
that particular problem
now we can have color that goes all
the way to the edges of the screen.
So then the next thing I
like to do is set up all of
my default fonts that I'm going to use,
we can always override those later.
And I'm going to set up some colors and
some font sizes as well.
And I'm gonna make use of all of
these variables that I just set.
So I set all of this stuff up.
It's stored out there.
We know if when I type in a color
of black, what to display, but
I haven't actually called any of
these variables yet in my CSS.
So here's the way we do that.
We're gonna say our font
family has a variable this
is the way you do this,
of the name science.
So all you have to type do is type in var,
v-a-r is in variable,
two parentheses and then inside of it,
the name of the variable.
So these are the names of the variables.
In this case, we want Oxygen,
sansaraf, and so
that will load in that particular font.
Now we have an issue, don't we?
This is actually Ariel
that's displaying here.
Why is that?
Because here we've said Oxygen, sansaraf.
Oxygen isn't loaded in this document yet.
And so right now it's pulling in
the defaults on saraf for my web browser.
That happens to be Ariel.
We need to go and
get Oxygen and Oxygen Mono.
So, let's do that now.
If you open up another tab, we'll go to
fonts.google.com and
if we search for Oxygen,
you can click on that later oxygen and
Oxygen Mono.
Those are the two that we need actually,
if you click on Oxygen,
the one that we're going
to use is just the regular.
So we'll select this style and
then we can click the back button,
then we'll go to Oxygen Mono and
we only have one choice there,
so we'll select that style.
If you want the bold for Oxygen for
some headings or whatever,
feel free you can add additional ones
remember that every font that you add,
adds to your overall page weight.
In the world of HTML and CSS web pages,
it's the probably the biggest source of
page weight comes from either images,
or it may come from some
of these particular fonts.
But remember, we don't have 400
megabytes of JavaScript to worry about,
which is really nice.
So we have a little bit more
flexibility in our font choices.
So this will give us here some code for
incorporating these
fonts into our web page.
You're gonna need to make this work in
code pen, you're gonna need to modify
this just a little bit and
what I want you to do is look for,
we blow the screen up just a little bit so
you can see this.
Over here where they give you the code,
you wanna take this little bit
here where it says link h ref and
just copy the URL part of that.
Okay, so I'm gonna copy that.
And then here in code pen,
we'll go to our settings.
We'll go to CSS, and down here where
it says external style sheets and pens.
We will paste in our particular URL
that we just copied from there and
then say Save and Close.
And then it should refresh and
you should see the Oxygen font
displaying there on the page.
>> What's the difference between
a pseudo class and a universal selector?
>> Yeah, the universal selector is gonna
have the same issue as the HTML element.
So, in fact, it's even worse.
So, the universal selector which
is just basically a star if
you remember DOS from the old
days we used to do, whatever,
star dot doc find all the files on your
computer that had the doc ending on it.
And of course we use them
in command line stuff.
Now, that star indicates all of
the elements inside of your document.
And but again, it's not really necessarily
thinking about the full DOM as a whole,
potentially may or may or maybe not.
Depending on what browser you're using.
But also the universal selector
has no specificity to it.
In other words,
if you are comparing two styles,
they're exactly the same, the HTML
element versus the universal selector.
The universal selector loses.
It's the only one of the, well one of
the only ones other than that not pseudo
class that loses when it comes to the HTML
elements or any other HTML element.
And it has no specificity to it at all and
so it's very easily overwritten.
So again that's part of
the reason why we use root, yeah.
>> What is the double colon mean?
>> The double colon is a pseudo
element as opposed to a pseudo class.
And again,
some of that has to do with specificity.
And some of it has to
do with functionality.
So the functionality piece of that,
the pseudo class is often having
to do with some functionality.
So if we just think about links, for
example, colon link, colon visited,
colon hover though all of those
are various states of a particular link as
opposed to a pseudo class which
often has to do with text.
So before the text or after the text,
other pseudo elements are first letter.
So the very first letter of a paragraph,
we're gonna style that
slightly differently than all of
the rest of the entire paragraph.
That's another pseudo element,
in terms of specificity,
pseudo elements have less specificity,
they're online with an HTML element
as opposed to a pseudo class,
which has specificity at
the level of a class.
So classes and
pseudo classes are weighted the same,
which is higher than an HTML element and
a pseudo element weighted the same.
Yeah, it's a weird looking
thing here with the HTML,
the black box sizing of border box.
So just briefly on that by default,
it's something called a content box.
Again, you can refer to the front
end masters bootcamp notes on this.
So what the content box
versus the border boxes,
the box sizing property is not inherited.
And so that is why we have both HTML
here saying the box sizes is border box.
And then we have this whole long weirdo
series of the universal selector,
everything before it and
everything after it,
we're inheriting that
particular box sizing.
And again,
this has to do with potentially,
there might be a reason you
wanna override this later,
but this is typically the way
people are executing this moment.
There are other people that write
this slightly differently, but
this is what you'll see pretty
commonly across the web.